https://filmfreeway.com/TIFFMarketDirectorsLab


TIFF Directors’ Lab is a five-day talent development programme that takes place during the Toronto International Film Festival in September.

Formerly TIFF Filmmaker Lab, TIFF Directors’ Lab returns with a focus on supporting creators embarking on their directorial debuts. The Lab selects 20 Canadian and international directors from hundreds of applications to receive an impactful career-launching mentorship from renowned directors, producers, agents, distributors, and top industry experts from around the world. TIFF Directors’ Lab is designed to be a catalyst for emerging directors to refine their debut feature film and prepare their projects for the marketplace.

Past mentors and speakers include Hany Abu-Assad, Jane Campion, Alfonso Cuarón, Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne, Julie Dash, Claire Denis, Ava DuVernay, Atom Egoyan, Hirokazu Kore-eda, Agnieszka Holland, Jia Zhang-ke, Mark Jenkin, Spike Lee, Steve McQueen, Deepa Mehta, Cristian Mungiu, Christian Petzold, Shih-Ching Tsou, Wim Wenders, Saul Williams, and Edgar Wright.

Selected Lab participants will receive financial support to be in Toronto for the duration of the programme, with specifics listed in their official invitation.

What’s included
○ A five-day feature film development and market readiness programme, taking place in-person September 9–13
○ Mentorship from TIFF’s programming team and top industry experts
○ Access to the 2026 Toronto International Film Festival, TIFF: The Market, and Delegate Resources

APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS

Fees:
A non-refundable application fee is required at the time of submission.

Early Bird Deadline (February 19 – March 23, 2026): $46.75 CAD
Regular Deadline (March 24 – April 13, 2026): $55.00 CAD

All fees are payable online at the time of application. Please ensure you review the eligibility criteria prior to submitting, as incomplete or ineligible applications will not be refunded.

Materials:
1. Completed feature film script (min. 80 pages, max. 120 pages)
2. One consolidated PDF with the following materials:
a. Project Logline & Synopsis
b. Artist statement or Creative approach (2 pages max.)
c. Applicant Resume/CV and filmography
3. Lookbook (10 pages max.)
4. Applicant biography (150-300 words max) & headshot (.jpg format)
5. One project pitch video (2 minutes max)
6. One video sample of produced work, written and directed by the applicant (5 minutes max)
7. Completed custom form submission

SUBMISSION CHECKLIST - Before starting and submitting your TIFF Directors’ Lab application, please review the checklist below and make sure you meet all criteria.

1. ELIGIBILITY
You meet the eligibility requirements for TIFF Directors’ Lab and agree to provide all the required submission materials. Please see below for all eligibility requirements.

2. PROJECT FILE
You have created a new video project under the “My Projects” section of your FilmFreeway profile for this specific programme application.

Name your video project submission “FIRST NAME LAST NAME – TIFF DIRECTORS’ LAB – 2026”.

3. VIDEO MATERIALS
You have uploaded the following materials listed below to your video project submission.

A video pitch (2 minutes maximum) about your narrative feature film script. The video should tell us: what your film is about, the current status of your project, your directing approach and vision, and why you would like to participate in TIFF Directors’ Lab.
○ The jury will not be evaluating the quality of the video but the statements made by the applicant. Your pitch video can be recorded on a cell phone or laptop.
○ If password-protected, please make sure your password is ‘DLTIFF2026’

○ UPLOADING: Please upload your pitch video to the “Add an Online Screener” section of your FilmFreeway Project page.

A clip (5 minutes maximum) from a previous project on which you are at minimum credited as the director. Please follow these guidelines for your clip submission:
○ Your video sample can be from a narrative or a documentary project.
○ Clip must include English subtitles if the language spoken is not English.
○ Not accepted: demo reels, trailers, commercials, and music videos, full films or episodes with time codes.
○ You must provide context in the “Clip Description” box in the Custom Form as to how your selected clip is relevant to your submitted project.
○ If password-protected, please make sure your password is ‘DLTIFF2026’

○ UPLOADING: Please upload your sample clip in the “Add a Trailer” section of your FilmFreeway project page.

4. WRITTEN MATERIALS
The following supporting documents added as three (3) PDFs to the “Files & Attachments” section of your FilmFreeway project page:

One (1) consolidated document with the following supporting materials:
○ A copy of your resume or CV (max. one page)
○ Your filmography. Please include each project title, year, role(s), festivals played, and a maximum of five awards or nominations received per project (max. two pages)
○ Your artist statement or creative approach (max. two pages)
○ One page document with Project Logline (max 50 words) and Synopsis (max 250 words)

A current draft of your narrative feature film script (min. 80 pages, max. 120 pages). Your submitted draft must be a first draft at minimum.

Lookbook (max. 10 pages) that showcases visuals, locations, tones, and themes that will be explored in your project

5. APPLICANT BIOGRAPHY AND HEADSHOT
Please upload your headshot as a JPEG to your project in the “Director” section of your FilmFreeway video project. Please copy and paste your professional biography into the “Director’s Bio” section on the same page.

6. CUSTOM FORM
After saving your new project, return to the TIFF Directors' Lab FilmFreeway event page to fill out the Custom Form application in full.

Questions?
Contact us by email at themarketsubmissions@tiff.net.

Accessibility
If you are a person with a disability and require accommodation and/or assistance during the application process, please contact us in advance at themarketsubmissions@tiff.net. We strive to provide reasonable accommodations whenever possible.